.. note::
    :class: sphx-glr-download-link-note

    Click :ref:`here <sphx_glr_download_auto_examples_plot_CZML_tutorial.py>` to download the full example code
.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-example-title

.. _sphx_glr_auto_examples_plot_CZML_tutorial.py:


Visualize orbital data with Cesium
==================================

Poliastro allows users to easily convert orbital data to CZML, a JSON
format primarily used in applications running Cesium

Dependencies
------------

You will only need poliastro (obviously) and czml3, a library for easily
creating and using CZML packets

``pip install poliastro czml3``


Our first example: The Molniya orbit
------------------------------------

We'll start off by using one of the readily usable poliastro examples.
Of course, you can use any poliastro ``Orbit`` object.



.. code-block:: default


    from poliastro.czml.extract_czml import CZMLExtractor

    from poliastro.examples import molniya









To initialize the extractor, you'll only need the starting and ending
epoch of the time period you wish to visualize and the number of sample
points. The larger the sample point size, the more accurate the
trajectory and the bigger your packets. Finding that sweet spot between
reasonable package size and visual accuracy depends on the specific
orbit. Generally, you'll need a bigger sample for faster satellites. You
could also "break" your orbit into different parts and define the sample
size individually (for example, this could be useful when the satellite
accelerates within a certain time interval).

For this specific example, we're only interested in a single orbital
period.



.. code-block:: default


    start_epoch = molniya.epoch
    end_epoch = molniya.epoch + molniya.period
    N = 80

    extractor = CZMLExtractor(
            start_epoch,
            end_epoch,
            N
        )









To add an orbit you can simply call ``add_orbit`` and pass your
``Orbit`` along with an optional precision parameter (``rtol``).
However, there are also many optional parameters you can pass to the
extractor to specify the visual characteristics of your trajectory:

Id parameters:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``id_name``: The orbit id name

``id_description``: The orbit's description

Path parameters:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``path_width``: The trajectorie's width. It's defined in pixels and
defaults to ``1.0``

``path_show``: Whether the trajectorie's path is visible (true by
default)

``path_color``: The trajectorie's color, a simple list with the rgba
values (e.g. ``[45, 30, 50, 255]``)

Label parameters:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``label_text``: The label text; the text that appears besides the orbit.

``label_show``: Whether the label is visible (true by default)

``label_fill_color``: The fill color of the label , a simple list with
the rgba values

``label_outline_color``: The fill color of the label , a simple list
with the rgba values

``label_font``: The font properties (CSS syntax)

Groundtrack parameters:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``show_groundtrack``: Whether the groundtrack is visible (true by
default)

``groundtrack_lead_time``: The time the animation is ahead of the
real-time groundtrack

``groundtrack_trail_time``: The time the animation is behind the
real-time groundtrack

``groundtrack_width``: The groundtrack width

``groundtrack_color``: The groundtrack color. By default, it is set to
the trajectory's color



.. code-block:: default


    extractor.add_orbit(molniya,
                  id_name="MolniyaOrbit",
                  path_width=2,
                  label_text="Molniya", 
                  label_fill_color=[125, 80, 120, 255]
                 )









You can now export the extractor packets by simply calling
``extractor.packets`` and load it to the Cesium app as described
`here <https://github.com/poliastro/cesium-app>`__



.. code-block:: default


    print(extractor.packets)






.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-script-out

 Out:

 .. code-block:: none

    [{
        "id": "document",
        "version": "1.0",
        "name": "document_packet",
        "clock": {
            "interval": "2000-01-01T12:00:00.000/2000-01-01T23:59:35.108",
            "currentTime": "2000-01-01T12:00:00.000",
            "multiplier": 60,
            "range": "LOOP_STOP",
            "step": "SYSTEM_CLOCK_MULTIPLIER"
        }
    }, {
        "id": "custom_properties",
        "properties": {
            "custom_attractor": true,
            "ellipsoid": [
                {
                    "array": [
                        6378136.6,
                        6378136.6,
                        6356751.9
                    ]
                }
            ],
            "map_url": [
                "https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c4/Earthmap1000x500compac.jpg"
            ],
            "scene3D": true
        }
    }, {
        "id": 0,
        "name": "MolniyaOrbit",
        "availability": "2000-01-01T12:00:00Z/2000-01-01T23:59:35Z",
        "position": {
            "epoch": "2000-01-01T12:00:00.000",
            "interpolationAlgorithm": "LAGRANGE",
            "interpolationDegree": 5,
            "referenceFrame": "INERTIAL",
            "cartesian": [
                0.0,
                10140093.639301954,
                -800580.7545708637,
                -1598722.824559082,
                539.6888535268,
                12583736.532830037,
                608614.3053631397,
                1215374.683667963,
                1079.3777070536,
                14295507.867179556,
                1989670.1402512214,
                3973279.4579459713,
                1619.0665605805,
                15505442.292977264,
                3303989.219132764,
                6597914.010006514,
                2158.7554141073,
                16355758.460532969,
                4543232.093240304,
                9072624.845479831,
                2698.4442676341,
                16937366.576441668,
                5708707.095335402,
                11400024.64451853,
                3238.1331211609,
                17311109.63942066,
                6804657.66814897,
                13588587.366445119,
                3777.8219746877,
                17519481.55513155,
                7835956.932408241,
                15648044.408484645,
                4317.5108282145,
                17593269.647865042,
                8807305.994513242,
                17587783.663188234,
                4857.1996817414,
                17555482.6383872,
                9722977.946547888,
                19416338.298268188,
                5396.8885352682,
                17423773.80513113,
                10586766.09014183,
                21141283.362039283,
                5936.577388795,
                17211994.57796442,
                11402007.171563562,
                22769282.18282756,
                6476.2662423218,
                16931225.198872812,
                12171628.905669553,
                24306181.272103727,
                7015.9550958486,
                16590479.27889089,
                12898201.750177203,
                25757113.71531721,
                7555.6439493755,
                16197198.290110337,
                13583987.350323815,
                27126595.913644638,
                8095.3328029023,
                15757606.783286255,
                14230981.220626162,
                28418612.817494184,
                8635.0216564291,
                15276972.869304704,
                14840949.332154907,
                29636690.98960429,
                9174.7105099559,
                14759802.77238862,
                15415459.078886662,
                30783960.443419788,
                9714.3993634827,
                14209988.557449283,
                15955905.347879468,
                31863206.70402936,
                10254.0882170096,
                13630921.985200187,
                16463532.438430736,
                32876914.579712495,
                10793.7770705364,
                13025583.458670735,
                16939452.507247716,
                33827304.996093765,
                11333.4659240632,
                12396612.378749592,
                17384661.122138496,
                34716366.05614604,
                11873.15477759,
                11746363.43663381,
                17800050.411987115,
                35545879.300084,
                12412.8436311168,
                11076952.138475807,
                18186420.215773407,
                36317441.96944228,
                12952.5324846436,
                10390291.99457661,
                18544487.560911275,
                37032485.93487964,
                13492.2213381705,
                9688125.192159813,
                18874894.740942053,
                37692293.82695987,
                14031.9101916973,
                8972048.128819289,
                19178216.21322697,
                38298012.810525365,
                14571.5990452241,
                8243532.86124495,
                19454964.49703796,
                38850666.36291228,
                15111.2878987509,
                7503945.285791417,
                19705595.21972072,
                39351164.35090532,
                15650.9767522777,
                6754560.6899183355,
                19930511.43197412,
                39800311.64815159,
                16190.6656058046,
                5996577.17989093,
                20130067.291557357,
                40198815.491353825,
                16730.3544593314,
                5231127.3887249,
                20304571.19692242,
                40547291.73798977,
                17270.0433128582,
                4459288.790909843,
                20454288.437578898,
                40846270.15896844,
                17809.732166385,
                3682092.8910116777,
                20579443.415795024,
                41096198.87526462,
                18349.4210199118,
                2900533.507541516,
                20680221.484005827,
                41297448.02713805,
                18889.1098734387,
                2115574.338358848,
                20756770.433623176,
                41450312.74721851,
                19428.7987269655,
                1328155.9670682768,
                20809201.66348525,
                41555015.49384541,
                19968.4875804923,
                539202.4497048233,
                20837591.049665753,
                41611707.78803667,
                20508.1764340191,
                -250372.3937197774,
                20841979.532555435,
                41620471.38586345,
                21047.8652875459,
                -1039658.8683693527,
                20822373.43182992,
                41581318.90742636,
                21587.5541410727,
                -1827745.3661045514,
                20778744.494956642,
                41494193.93372156,
                22127.2429945996,
                -2613712.2934710016,
                20711029.680108387,
                41358970.573129125,
                22666.9318481264,
                -3396625.8591288165,
                20619130.66959401,
                41175452.48975665,
                23206.6207016532,
                -4175531.608962743,
                20502913.105037883,
                40943371.37612791,
                23746.30955518,
                -4949447.588503712,
                20362205.530383136,
                40662384.84240905,
                24285.9984087068,
                -5717356.99933301,
                20196798.023194283,
                40332073.68318316,
                24825.6872622337,
                -6478200.198084386,
                20006440.488501944,
                39951938.47033687,
                25365.3761157605,
                -7230865.862448919,
                19790840.582348675,
                39521395.406477205,
                25905.0649692873,
                -7974181.116735706,
                19549661.22399992,
                39039771.35693163,
                26444.7538228141,
                -8706900.368016552,
                19282517.64616502,
                38506297.959175564,
                26984.4426763409,
                -9427692.549896276,
                18988973.921144255,
                37920104.68570829,
                27524.1315298678,
                -10135126.400681868,
                18668538.887104172,
                37280210.709012784,
                28063.8203833946,
                -10827653.310900128,
                18320661.382095985,
                36585515.38411033,
                28603.5092369214,
                -11503587.15441439,
                17944724.673235156,
                35834787.12388929,
                29143.1980904482,
                -12161080.357535452,
                17540039.943749495,
                35026650.39304065,
                29682.886943975,
                -12798095.2469447,
                17105838.6702605,
                34159570.48584056,
                30222.5757975018,
                -13412369.429028237,
                16641263.685348855,
                33231835.678506147,
                30762.2646510287,
                -14001373.559951108,
                16145358.67460609,
                32241536.255292248,
                31301.9535045555,
                -14562259.32260964,
                15617055.801295312,
                31186539.795509968,
                31841.6423580823,
                -15091794.666271508,
                15055161.083856182,
                30064461.973078884,
                32381.3312116091,
                -15586282.284827432,
                14458337.070962278,
                28872631.959416002,
                32921.0200651359,
                -16041455.751221897,
                13825082.267011242,
                27608051.337089047,
                33460.7089186628,
                -16452345.437294811,
                13153706.664422877,
                26267345.23894474,
                34000.3977721896,
                -16813102.923224892,
                12442302.656641968,
                24846704.262717683,
                34540.0866257164,
                -17116767.365662478,
                11688710.582876941,
                23341815.66546336,
                35079.7754792432,
                -17354949.10475257,
                10890478.297630355,
                21747782.625776142,
                35619.46433277,
                -17517392.649865746,
                10044814.704240255,
                20059031.452415615,
                36159.1531862968,
                -17591359.494812906,
                9148538.688496856,
                18269209.607095435,
                36698.8420398237,
                -17560734.28186116,
                8198028.609533405,
                16371084.840123137,
                37238.5308933505,
                -17404692.760537263,
                7189186.514400173,
                14356473.728555705,
                37778.2197468773,
                -17095651.007264946,
                6117453.23293793,
                12216271.819965322,
                38317.9086004041,
                -16595989.290428584,
                4977965.867410629,
                9940768.131968604,
                38857.5974539309,
                -15852598.670961259,
                3766095.592711343,
                7520719.114421383,
                39397.2863074578,
                -14787403.22995973,
                2479017.267440396,
                4950483.090312955,
                39936.9751609846,
                -13280284.576410703,
                1120227.7306742524,
                2237043.0859194812,
                40476.6640145114,
                -11138571.623096796,
                -286874.6960855463,
                -572875.5304219805,
                41016.3528680382,
                -8054972.095609489,
                -1656088.2794498827,
                -3307131.8748606658,
                41556.041721565,
                -3666476.709988085,
                -2716113.2463438264,
                -5423952.81953131,
                42095.7305750919,
                1741220.979238391,
                -2919128.375644077,
                -5829364.664732487,
                42635.4194286187,
                6613709.608181386,
                -2104083.683650755,
                -4201758.024570474,
                43175.1082821455,
                10140093.6393023,
                -800580.754570699,
                -1598722.824558753,
                43714.7971356723,
                12583736.5328303,
                608614.3053633232,
                1215374.6836683291
            ]
        },
        "billboard": {
            "image": "data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAABAAAAAQCAYAAAAf8/9hAAAAAXNSR0IArs4c6QAAAARnQU1BAACxjwv8YQUAAAAJcEhZcwAADsMAAA7DAcdvqGQAAADJSURBVDhPnZHRDcMgEEMZjVEYpaNklIzSEfLfD4qNnXAJSFWfhO7w2Zc0Tf9QG2rXrEzSUeZLOGm47WoH95x3Hl3jEgilvDgsOQUTqsNl68ezEwn1vae6lceSEEYvvWNT/Rxc4CXQNGadho1NXoJ+9iaqc2xi2xbt23PJCDIB6TQjOC6Bho/sDy3fBQT8PrVhibU7yBFcEPaRxOoeTwbwByCOYf9VGp1BYI1BA+EeHhmfzKbBoJEQwn1yzUZtyspIQUha85MpkNIXB7GizqDEECsAAAAASUVORK5CYII=",
            "show": true
        },
        "label": {
            "text": "Molniya",
            "font": "11pt Lucida Console",
            "style": "FILL",
            "fillColor": {
                "rgba": [
                    125,
                    80,
                    120,
                    255
                ]
            },
            "outlineColor": {
                "rgba": [
                    255,
                    255,
                    0,
                    255
                ]
            },
            "outlineWidth": 1.0
        },
        "path": {
            "width": 2,
            "resolution": 120,
            "material": {
                "solidColor": {
                    "color": {
                        "rgba": [
                            255,
                            255,
                            0,
                            255
                        ]
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }]




Landing on Mars
---------------

You can customize the attractor of your orbit by defining any valid
ellipsoid with the help of poliastro's ``Body`` class. For your
convenience, poliastro offers a pre-defined list of all the major
planetary bodies of the solar system so you can simply import them.



.. code-block:: default


    from poliastro.bodies import Mars









Of course, when defining a new attractor you want to be able to identify
something other than it's shape. For this reason, the extractor allows
you to easily set the UV map by simply providing a valid URL.



.. code-block:: default


    mars_uv = "https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/f/fd/Mars_2020_LandingSites_Final_8-full.jpg"

    extractor = CZMLExtractor(
            start_epoch,
            end_epoch,
            N,
            attractor=Mars,
            pr_map=mars_uv
    )

    print(extractor.packets)






.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-script-out

 Out:

 .. code-block:: none

    /home/lobo/anaconda3/envs/poliastro/lib/python3.7/site-packages/astropy/units/quantity.py:1070: AstropyDeprecationWarning:

    The truth value of a Quantity is ambiguous. In the future this will raise a ValueError.

    [{
        "id": "document",
        "version": "1.0",
        "name": "document_packet",
        "clock": {
            "interval": "2000-01-01T12:00:00.000/2000-01-01T23:59:35.108",
            "currentTime": "2000-01-01T12:00:00.000",
            "multiplier": 60,
            "range": "LOOP_STOP",
            "step": "SYSTEM_CLOCK_MULTIPLIER"
        }
    }, {
        "id": "custom_properties",
        "properties": {
            "custom_attractor": true,
            "ellipsoid": [
                {
                    "array": [
                        3396190.0,
                        3396190.0,
                        3376220.0
                    ]
                }
            ],
            "map_url": "https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/f/fd/Mars_2020_LandingSites_Final_8-full.jpg",
            "scene3D": true
        }
    }]




Return to Flatland
------------------

Instead of a 3D globe you may want to visualize your orbit as a 2D
projection instead. In this case you can simply set ``scene3D`` to
``false`` and Cesium will automatically render the scene's orthographic
projection. This can be of use when plotting animated groundtracks as
we'll see in the next section



.. code-block:: default


    extractor = CZMLExtractor(
            start_epoch,
            end_epoch,
            N,
            scene3D=False
    )

    print(extractor.packets)






.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-script-out

 Out:

 .. code-block:: none

    [{
        "id": "document",
        "version": "1.0",
        "name": "document_packet",
        "clock": {
            "interval": "2000-01-01T12:00:00.000/2000-01-01T23:59:35.108",
            "currentTime": "2000-01-01T12:00:00.000",
            "multiplier": 60,
            "range": "LOOP_STOP",
            "step": "SYSTEM_CLOCK_MULTIPLIER"
        }
    }, {
        "id": "custom_properties",
        "properties": {
            "custom_attractor": true,
            "ellipsoid": [
                {
                    "array": [
                        6378136.6,
                        6378136.6,
                        6356751.9
                    ]
                }
            ],
            "map_url": [
                "https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c4/Earthmap1000x500compac.jpg"
            ],
            "scene3D": false
        }
    }]




Ground track plotting
---------------------

Another useful feature the extractor offers, is the ability to plot the
ground track of an orbit. You can set the groundtrack by setting the
aforementioned ``groundtrack_show`` parameter to true. Note that this
also works in 2D view.



.. code-block:: default


    extractor = CZMLExtractor(
            start_epoch,
            end_epoch,
            N
        )

    extractor.add_orbit(molniya,
                  groundtrack_show=True,
                  groundtrack_lead_time=20,
                  groundtrack_trail_time=20
                 )

    print(extractor.packets)





.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-script-out

 Out:

 .. code-block:: none

    [{
        "id": "document",
        "version": "1.0",
        "name": "document_packet",
        "clock": {
            "interval": "2000-01-01T12:00:00.000/2000-01-01T23:59:35.108",
            "currentTime": "2000-01-01T12:00:00.000",
            "multiplier": 60,
            "range": "LOOP_STOP",
            "step": "SYSTEM_CLOCK_MULTIPLIER"
        }
    }, {
        "id": "custom_properties",
        "properties": {
            "custom_attractor": true,
            "ellipsoid": [
                {
                    "array": [
                        6378136.6,
                        6378136.6,
                        6356751.9
                    ]
                }
            ],
            "map_url": [
                "https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c4/Earthmap1000x500compac.jpg"
            ],
            "scene3D": true
        }
    }, {
        "id": 0,
        "availability": "2000-01-01T12:00:00Z/2000-01-01T23:59:35Z",
        "position": {
            "epoch": "2000-01-01T12:00:00.000",
            "interpolationAlgorithm": "LAGRANGE",
            "interpolationDegree": 5,
            "referenceFrame": "INERTIAL",
            "cartesian": [
                0.0,
                10140093.639301954,
                -800580.7545708637,
                -1598722.824559082,
                539.6888535268,
                12583736.532830037,
                608614.3053631397,
                1215374.683667963,
                1079.3777070536,
                14295507.867179556,
                1989670.1402512214,
                3973279.4579459713,
                1619.0665605805,
                15505442.292977264,
                3303989.219132764,
                6597914.010006514,
                2158.7554141073,
                16355758.460532969,
                4543232.093240304,
                9072624.845479831,
                2698.4442676341,
                16937366.576441668,
                5708707.095335402,
                11400024.64451853,
                3238.1331211609,
                17311109.63942066,
                6804657.66814897,
                13588587.366445119,
                3777.8219746877,
                17519481.55513155,
                7835956.932408241,
                15648044.408484645,
                4317.5108282145,
                17593269.647865042,
                8807305.994513242,
                17587783.663188234,
                4857.1996817414,
                17555482.6383872,
                9722977.946547888,
                19416338.298268188,
                5396.8885352682,
                17423773.80513113,
                10586766.09014183,
                21141283.362039283,
                5936.577388795,
                17211994.57796442,
                11402007.171563562,
                22769282.18282756,
                6476.2662423218,
                16931225.198872812,
                12171628.905669553,
                24306181.272103727,
                7015.9550958486,
                16590479.27889089,
                12898201.750177203,
                25757113.71531721,
                7555.6439493755,
                16197198.290110337,
                13583987.350323815,
                27126595.913644638,
                8095.3328029023,
                15757606.783286255,
                14230981.220626162,
                28418612.817494184,
                8635.0216564291,
                15276972.869304704,
                14840949.332154907,
                29636690.98960429,
                9174.7105099559,
                14759802.77238862,
                15415459.078886662,
                30783960.443419788,
                9714.3993634827,
                14209988.557449283,
                15955905.347879468,
                31863206.70402936,
                10254.0882170096,
                13630921.985200187,
                16463532.438430736,
                32876914.579712495,
                10793.7770705364,
                13025583.458670735,
                16939452.507247716,
                33827304.996093765,
                11333.4659240632,
                12396612.378749592,
                17384661.122138496,
                34716366.05614604,
                11873.15477759,
                11746363.43663381,
                17800050.411987115,
                35545879.300084,
                12412.8436311168,
                11076952.138475807,
                18186420.215773407,
                36317441.96944228,
                12952.5324846436,
                10390291.99457661,
                18544487.560911275,
                37032485.93487964,
                13492.2213381705,
                9688125.192159813,
                18874894.740942053,
                37692293.82695987,
                14031.9101916973,
                8972048.128819289,
                19178216.21322697,
                38298012.810525365,
                14571.5990452241,
                8243532.86124495,
                19454964.49703796,
                38850666.36291228,
                15111.2878987509,
                7503945.285791417,
                19705595.21972072,
                39351164.35090532,
                15650.9767522777,
                6754560.6899183355,
                19930511.43197412,
                39800311.64815159,
                16190.6656058046,
                5996577.17989093,
                20130067.291557357,
                40198815.491353825,
                16730.3544593314,
                5231127.3887249,
                20304571.19692242,
                40547291.73798977,
                17270.0433128582,
                4459288.790909843,
                20454288.437578898,
                40846270.15896844,
                17809.732166385,
                3682092.8910116777,
                20579443.415795024,
                41096198.87526462,
                18349.4210199118,
                2900533.507541516,
                20680221.484005827,
                41297448.02713805,
                18889.1098734387,
                2115574.338358848,
                20756770.433623176,
                41450312.74721851,
                19428.7987269655,
                1328155.9670682768,
                20809201.66348525,
                41555015.49384541,
                19968.4875804923,
                539202.4497048233,
                20837591.049665753,
                41611707.78803667,
                20508.1764340191,
                -250372.3937197774,
                20841979.532555435,
                41620471.38586345,
                21047.8652875459,
                -1039658.8683693527,
                20822373.43182992,
                41581318.90742636,
                21587.5541410727,
                -1827745.3661045514,
                20778744.494956642,
                41494193.93372156,
                22127.2429945996,
                -2613712.2934710016,
                20711029.680108387,
                41358970.573129125,
                22666.9318481264,
                -3396625.8591288165,
                20619130.66959401,
                41175452.48975665,
                23206.6207016532,
                -4175531.608962743,
                20502913.105037883,
                40943371.37612791,
                23746.30955518,
                -4949447.588503712,
                20362205.530383136,
                40662384.84240905,
                24285.9984087068,
                -5717356.99933301,
                20196798.023194283,
                40332073.68318316,
                24825.6872622337,
                -6478200.198084386,
                20006440.488501944,
                39951938.47033687,
                25365.3761157605,
                -7230865.862448919,
                19790840.582348675,
                39521395.406477205,
                25905.0649692873,
                -7974181.116735706,
                19549661.22399992,
                39039771.35693163,
                26444.7538228141,
                -8706900.368016552,
                19282517.64616502,
                38506297.959175564,
                26984.4426763409,
                -9427692.549896276,
                18988973.921144255,
                37920104.68570829,
                27524.1315298678,
                -10135126.400681868,
                18668538.887104172,
                37280210.709012784,
                28063.8203833946,
                -10827653.310900128,
                18320661.382095985,
                36585515.38411033,
                28603.5092369214,
                -11503587.15441439,
                17944724.673235156,
                35834787.12388929,
                29143.1980904482,
                -12161080.357535452,
                17540039.943749495,
                35026650.39304065,
                29682.886943975,
                -12798095.2469447,
                17105838.6702605,
                34159570.48584056,
                30222.5757975018,
                -13412369.429028237,
                16641263.685348855,
                33231835.678506147,
                30762.2646510287,
                -14001373.559951108,
                16145358.67460609,
                32241536.255292248,
                31301.9535045555,
                -14562259.32260964,
                15617055.801295312,
                31186539.795509968,
                31841.6423580823,
                -15091794.666271508,
                15055161.083856182,
                30064461.973078884,
                32381.3312116091,
                -15586282.284827432,
                14458337.070962278,
                28872631.959416002,
                32921.0200651359,
                -16041455.751221897,
                13825082.267011242,
                27608051.337089047,
                33460.7089186628,
                -16452345.437294811,
                13153706.664422877,
                26267345.23894474,
                34000.3977721896,
                -16813102.923224892,
                12442302.656641968,
                24846704.262717683,
                34540.0866257164,
                -17116767.365662478,
                11688710.582876941,
                23341815.66546336,
                35079.7754792432,
                -17354949.10475257,
                10890478.297630355,
                21747782.625776142,
                35619.46433277,
                -17517392.649865746,
                10044814.704240255,
                20059031.452415615,
                36159.1531862968,
                -17591359.494812906,
                9148538.688496856,
                18269209.607095435,
                36698.8420398237,
                -17560734.28186116,
                8198028.609533405,
                16371084.840123137,
                37238.5308933505,
                -17404692.760537263,
                7189186.514400173,
                14356473.728555705,
                37778.2197468773,
                -17095651.007264946,
                6117453.23293793,
                12216271.819965322,
                38317.9086004041,
                -16595989.290428584,
                4977965.867410629,
                9940768.131968604,
                38857.5974539309,
                -15852598.670961259,
                3766095.592711343,
                7520719.114421383,
                39397.2863074578,
                -14787403.22995973,
                2479017.267440396,
                4950483.090312955,
                39936.9751609846,
                -13280284.576410703,
                1120227.7306742524,
                2237043.0859194812,
                40476.6640145114,
                -11138571.623096796,
                -286874.6960855463,
                -572875.5304219805,
                41016.3528680382,
                -8054972.095609489,
                -1656088.2794498827,
                -3307131.8748606658,
                41556.041721565,
                -3666476.709988085,
                -2716113.2463438264,
                -5423952.81953131,
                42095.7305750919,
                1741220.979238391,
                -2919128.375644077,
                -5829364.664732487,
                42635.4194286187,
                6613709.608181386,
                -2104083.683650755,
                -4201758.024570474,
                43175.1082821455,
                10140093.6393023,
                -800580.754570699,
                -1598722.824558753,
                43714.7971356723,
                12583736.5328303,
                608614.3053633232,
                1215374.6836683291
            ]
        },
        "billboard": {
            "image": "data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAABAAAAAQCAYAAAAf8/9hAAAAAXNSR0IArs4c6QAAAARnQU1BAACxjwv8YQUAAAAJcEhZcwAADsMAAA7DAcdvqGQAAADJSURBVDhPnZHRDcMgEEMZjVEYpaNklIzSEfLfD4qNnXAJSFWfhO7w2Zc0Tf9QG2rXrEzSUeZLOGm47WoH95x3Hl3jEgilvDgsOQUTqsNl68ezEwn1vae6lceSEEYvvWNT/Rxc4CXQNGadho1NXoJ+9iaqc2xi2xbt23PJCDIB6TQjOC6Bho/sDy3fBQT8PrVhibU7yBFcEPaRxOoeTwbwByCOYf9VGp1BYI1BA+EeHhmfzKbBoJEQwn1yzUZtyspIQUha85MpkNIXB7GizqDEECsAAAAASUVORK5CYII=",
            "show": true
        },
        "label": {
            "font": "11pt Lucida Console",
            "style": "FILL",
            "fillColor": {
                "rgba": [
                    255,
                    255,
                    0,
                    255
                ]
            },
            "outlineColor": {
                "rgba": [
                    255,
                    255,
                    0,
                    255
                ]
            },
            "outlineWidth": 1.0
        },
        "path": {
            "resolution": 120,
            "material": {
                "solidColor": {
                    "color": {
                        "rgba": [
                            255,
                            255,
                            0,
                            255
                        ]
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }, {
        "id": "groundtrack0",
        "availability": "2000-01-01T12:00:00Z/2000-01-01T23:59:35Z",
        "position": {
            "epoch": "2000-01-01T12:00:00.000",
            "interpolationAlgorithm": "LAGRANGE",
            "interpolationDegree": 5,
            "referenceFrame": "INERTIAL",
            "cartesian": [
                0.0,
                6280728.255793353,
                -495875.999874523,
                -990241.5895440956,
                539.6888535268,
                6341053.817010772,
                306686.1143789846,
                612437.9188725719,
                1079.3777070536,
                6089229.750035248,
                847508.1790674893,
                1692434.62614559,
                1619.0665605805,
                5756367.851201801,
                1226600.1951129497,
                2449463.889214577,
                2158.7554141073,
                5415847.194351472,
                1504390.7640290447,
                3004198.8368607652,
                2698.4442676341,
                5090830.810440687,
                1715854.8798255012,
                3426482.918221449,
                3238.1331211609,
                4787570.182351507,
                1881899.9984610467,
                3758067.3580841874,
                3777.8219746877,
                4506422.461715499,
                2015592.367072594,
                4025044.8490472496,
                4317.5108282145,
                4245756.819474952,
                2125453.716929835,
                4244432.895226037,
                4857.1996817414,
                4003403.0273898956,
                2217256.0522256005,
                4427757.922647962,
                5396.8885352682,
                3777191.4232331146,
                2295039.1348275845,
                4583087.149350408,
                5936.577388795,
                3565140.998339838,
                2361711.400010929,
                4716228.586369844,
                6476.2662423218,
                3365508.458195022,
                2419418.561081371,
                4831467.124165172,
                7015.9550958486,
                3176783.3833457273,
                2469777.5558760543,
                4932031.71298453,
                7555.6439493755,
                2997664.4373647165,
                2514029.60744525,
                5020401.017983822,
                8095.3328029023,
                2827030.992816009,
                2553143.105730236,
                5098508.869190017,
                8635.0216564291,
                2663915.8656335925,
                2587884.4433919215,
                5167885.717382202,
                9174.7105099559,
                2507481.143224389,
                2618867.8456598655,
                5229758.1420007665,
                9714.3993634827,
                2356997.5289885127,
                2646591.1039329884,
                5285120.209499059,
                10254.0882170096,
                2211827.001450526,
                2671461.6474845805,
                5334785.537335267,
                10793.7770705364,
                2071408.3728474271,
                2693815.864364986,
                5379425.8769235,
                11333.4659240632,
                1935245.2947537028,
                2713933.622412319,
                5419600.111422142,
                11873.15477759,
                1802896.2914429125,
                2732049.3225856074,
                5455776.328730078,
                12412.8436311168,
                1673966.4580185697,
                2748360.4100755607,
                5488348.817782158,
                12952.5324846436,
                1548100.5195212686,
                2763033.9962407113,
                5517651.292250132,
                13492.2213381705,
                1424977.0011425563,
                2776212.0588530474,
                5543967.275193164,
                14031.9101916973,
                1304303.3058068263,
                2788015.559727615,
                5567538.321774209,
                14571.5990452241,
                1185811.5335790892,
                2798547.7286412013,
                5588570.57709402,
                15111.2878987509,
                1069254.9084209236,
                2807896.6982573145,
                5607240.038014805,
                15650.9767522777,
                954404.702824944,
                2816137.628488364,
                5623696.795413418,
                16190.6656058046,
                841047.5708753703,
                2823334.4249362224,
                5638068.46582794,
                16730.3544593314,
                728983.2162499096,
                2829541.131089019,
                5650462.971610336,
                17270.0433128582,
                618022.3343855873,
                2834803.0552893267,
                5660970.791430017,
                17809.732166385,
                507984.77811925986,
                2839157.679366185,
                5669666.77476999,
                18349.4210199118,
                398697.90409397555,
                2842635.384995813,
                5676611.592435708,
                18889.1098734387,
                289995.063496438,
                2845260.025430935,
                5681852.878272189,
                19428.7987269655,
                181714.2055720926,
                2847049.36357127,
                5685426.103970503,
                19968.4875804923,
                73696.56609142644,
                2848015.3919545733,
                5687355.218075162,
                20508.1764340191,
                -34214.584304876546,
                2848164.5457703383,
                5687653.071362628,
                21047.8652875459,
                -142175.15504243816,
                2847497.816152385,
                5686321.643081417,
                21587.5541410727,
                -250341.43583190683,
                2846010.7675650963,
                5683352.075671567,
                22127.2429945996,
                -358871.30370822747,
                2843693.459865863,
                5678724.519126965,
                22666.9318481264,
                -467925.4586427846,
                2840530.2724261642,
                5672407.779773278,
                23206.6207016532,
                -577668.7103809972,
                2836499.6243502335,
                5664358.76155748,
                23746.30955518,
                -688271.3407861354,
                2831573.5811563195,
                5654521.680608554,
                24285.9984087068,
                -799910.5684033461,
                2825717.334069072,
                5642827.025408326,
                24825.6872622337,
                -912772.1453105785,
                2818888.533050014,
                5629190.224884195,
                25365.3761157605,
                -1027052.1207580162,
                2811036.448541122,
                5613509.974449677,
                25905.0649692873,
                -1142958.8118298422,
                2802100.9291785457,
                5595666.154606784,
                26444.7538228141,
                -1260715.028676975,
                2792011.11287424,
                5575517.257035611,
                26984.4426763409,
                -1380560.6111333133,
                2780683.835868674,
                5552897.207545908,
                27524.1315298678,
                -1502755.3452101792,
                2768021.6675283876,
                5527611.441658521,
                28063.8203833946,
                -1627582.3426550827,
                2753910.476250267,
                5499432.043828575,
                28603.5092369214,
                -1755351.985195545,
                2738216.401628638,
                5468091.701002842,
                29143.1980904482,
                -1886406.5581523082,
                2720782.066845913,
                5433276.138938667,
                29682.886943975,
                -2021125.7268274627,
                2701421.808379697,
                5394614.596149156,
                30222.5757975018,
                -2159933.0445431634,
                2679915.620614447,
                5351667.73157209,
                30762.2646510287,
                -2303303.724381044,
                2656001.40030055,
                5303912.137112593,
                31301.9535045555,
                -2451773.9578677355,
                2629364.913909039,
                5250720.302913444,
                31841.6423580823,
                -2605952.121654473,
                2599626.674665932,
                5191334.411398182,
                32381.3312116091,
                -2766532.2721189405,
                2566324.5655053,
                5124831.636110259,
                32921.0200651359,
                -2934310.3730377066,
                2528890.5146750477,
                5050077.563974077,
                33460.7089186628,
                -3110203.698145348,
                2486618.7151574385,
                4965662.730944255,
                34000.3977721896,
                -3295273.7196777943,
                2438621.5958752804,
                4869814.698536081,
                34540.0866257164,
                -3490752.360464373,
                2383767.6862024223,
                4760273.9721201565,
                35079.7754792432,
                -3698070.35923201,
                2320592.1015256834,
                4634115.244720185,
                35619.46433277,
                -3918883.788974635,
                2247164.5781270764,
                4487483.868762212,
                36159.1531862968,
                -4155088.412842033,
                2160889.826861243,
                4315197.171581017,
                36698.8420398237,
                -4408796.594389638,
                2058196.5771003827,
                4110123.4905270156,
                37238.5308933505,
                -4682215.416707372,
                1934037.1504298863,
                3862182.84472834,
                37778.2197468773,
                -4977274.442685878,
                1781052.148233444,
                3556678.85474325,
                38317.9086004041,
                -5294613.943414969,
                1588119.2249281686,
                3171400.7096766853,
                38857.5974539309,
                -5630876.89476487,
                1337725.3192682783,
                2671375.6343505397,
                39397.2863074578,
                -5971222.7091501225,
                1001038.9045431971,
                1999028.4003373003,
                39936.9751609846,
                -6267303.173214556,
                528663.9914102235,
                1055717.4962679073,
                40476.6640145114,
                -6367554.87183826,
                -163996.7264482233,
                -327493.99488186964,
                41016.3528680382,
                -5793580.464333314,
                -1191150.006388425,
                -2378671.6975501776,
                41556.041721565,
                -3292792.8979929793,
                -2439289.5469117337,
                -4871148.765324448,
                42095.7305750919,
                1641675.4481332935,
                -2752241.659932962,
                -5496099.6940402165,
                42635.4194286187,
                5194666.048768911,
                -1652629.4396005946,
                -3300224.830983113,
                43175.1082821455,
                6280728.255793396,
                -495875.99987440754,
                -990241.589543865,
                43714.7971356723,
                6341053.817010751,
                306686.1143790696,
                612437.9188727415
            ]
        },
        "path": {
            "show": true,
            "leadTime": 20,
            "trailTime": 20,
            "resolution": 60,
            "material": {
                "solidColor": {
                    "color": {
                        "rgba": [
                            255,
                            255,
                            0,
                            255
                        ]
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }]





.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-timing

   **Total running time of the script:** ( 0 minutes  0.464 seconds)


.. _sphx_glr_download_auto_examples_plot_CZML_tutorial.py:


.. only :: html

 .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
    :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Python source code: plot_CZML_tutorial.py <plot_CZML_tutorial.py>`



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download

     :download:`Download Jupyter notebook: plot_CZML_tutorial.ipynb <plot_CZML_tutorial.ipynb>`


.. only:: html

 .. rst-class:: sphx-glr-signature

    `Gallery generated by Sphinx-Gallery <https://sphinx-gallery.github.io>`_
